Databases:
Introduction to data bases:
SQL Foundations and databases:
ex:
Imagine a piggy bank and it used to store currency of different types.

***A Data abse is used to store information of different data types .

We should group the data similar way of piggy bank.

A data base consists of numbers,alphabets,symbols,images and if it contains arranged information called relational data base.

When we store some data call it as data base.

****Types of data bases:

Relational Databases:

Data is stored in rows and columns and they use structured query language.

ex: Mysql,postregsqll

No SQL Data abses:

Means non relational data abses or rapidly growing data bases.
ex: social media data etc..,
It can handle large volume data.

Graph Databases:
if we want to store ata and quering in grapgh way.
ex: amazon neptune,neo4j,Tigergrapgh

Time series data base:
Storing timing widley used for IOT Applications with stamped data.
ex:time scaled db

Spatrial data bases:
Storing data regarding geographic 

OO Data bases:
object oreienedted used for very very complex data 

In-Memory data bases:

Store data primarly in system memory rather than disk.
rex:redis

New SQL Data abses:
Modern data bases where ebnifits of traditional relational datbases with the sclability and performance of No SQL data abses.
ex:Google spanner,NuoDB,cockroachDB


****What is SQL and My SQL ?

sql is difficult to talk to it. while using sql we can do but very difficult process.
ex: going to bank and taking money where bank is sql

-->RDBMS Used to talk to sql like how in banks we use debit cards ,upi etc.,
like that Mysql is one of the RDBMS system .

SQl is a langauage used for managing RDb's. But MySQL is a RDBMS System that uses sql as a lanaguage.

SQL can have multiple RDbMS Systenms.

****Data bases vs spread sheets:

Both data bases and spread sheets helps to store large amount of data.

Spreadsheet is sued top store numbers or any format easily but creates lot of problems

But data base we can store only the column type values where it gives strctural integrity.It will trhow error if we do store some other values.
There will be some pre-defined data types,no formating,no misplaced data

-->while stopring data in spread sheet we can store all info at one place which is good for accesing but not good if data is huge.

-->while storing in data bases really good data quality but more work to get data.

When we structure the data we can store some space tahts why we go for data bases instead of spreadsheets.


*****Relational Databases:
Ex:
Lets say we have a piza store contains of [pizza's information 
where it have fields like product id,color,size ,calories from pizza table 
I can write a query to get the data easily but in spreadsheets its very difficult.

I have a person details storing in a data abse of age,scl,study everything if i bring all data for taht person have around 10 columns type of data for that person
if i create columns then i can store each person information and if we wnat unique we cna keep as key as well.

If we think the fields will change every time keep those in seperate table but keep all common fields in one table with keys for two tables.
which is nothing but in example lets take id how ID works as unique one.

It is also easy to retrive ibformation based on key if all tables uses key based methods.



